A cough pronunciation, is a sudden and often repetitively occurring reflex which helps to clear the large breathing passages from secretions, irritants, foreign particles and microbes. 
The cough reflex consists of three phases: an inhalation, a forced exhalation against a closed glottis, and a violent release of air from the lungs following opening of the glottis, usually accompanied by a distinctive sound. 
Coughing can happen voluntarily as well as involuntarily.
Frequent coughing usually indicates the presence of a disease. 
Many viruses and bacteria benefit evolutionarily by causing the host to cough, which helps to spread the disease to new hosts. 
Most of the time, coughing is caused by a respiratory tract infection but can be triggered by choking, smoking, air pollution, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease, post-nasal drip, chronic bronchitis, lung tumors, heart failure and medications such as ACE inhibitors.
Treatment should target the cause; for example, smoking cessation or discontinuing ACE inhibitors. 
Some people may be worried about serious illnesses, and reassurance may suffice. 
Cough suppressants such as codeine or dextromethorphan are frequently prescribed, but have been demonstrated to have little effect. 
Other treatment options may target airway inflammation or may promote mucus expectoration. 
As it is a natural protective reflex, suppressing the cough reflex might have damaging effects, especially if the cough is productive.
A cough can be classified by its duration, character, quality, and timing.
The duration can be either acute, of sudden onset , if it is present less than three weeks, subacute if it is present between three and eight weeks, and chronic when lasting longer than eight weeks. 
A cough can be non-productive (dry) or productive (when sputum is coughed up). 
It may occur only at night (then called nocturnal cough), during both night and day, or just during the day.
A number of characteristic coughs exist. 
While these have not been found to be diagnostically useful in adults, they are of use in children. 
A barky cough is part of the common presentation of croup, while a staccato cough has been classically described with chlamydia pneumonia.
A cough in children may be either a normal physiological reflex or due to an underlying cause.
In healthy children it may be normal in the absence of any disease to cough ten times a day. 
The most common cause of an acute or subacute cough is a viral respiratory tract infection. 
In adults with a chronic cough, i.e. a cough longer than 8 weeks, more than 90% of cases are due to post-nasal drip, asthma, eosinophilic bronchitis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease.
The causes of chronic cough are similar in children with the addition of bacterial bronchitis.
